Hello everyone, welcome back to another great lesson with us here at EnglishPod, my name is Marko
and I'm Erica and today we're going out to eat yes good thing too because I'm hungry
I know it's almost lunchtime yeah so today we're going to be talking about eating at a restaurant
and giving some great recommendations and suggestions yes we have language for describing food
for describing restaurants and for making suggestions great so let's start with our
vocabulary preview for this lesson very vocabulary preview we have two words today from our
dialogue which you'll need to know to understand the dialogue great the first one that we have today
is food poisoning food poisoning food poisoning so food poisoning is not a good thing not a good thing
it is when you eat some bad food and that food makes you sick so you get food poisoning okay so
food poisoning yeah not a good thing okay the next words allergic allergic allergic allergic
so when you're allergic to something it makes you sick that one thing makes you sick right for example
I'm allergic to seafood right if I eat seafood I cannot breathe okay so you definitely want to stay
away from fish yes yes some people are allergic to nuts like peanuts or maybe milk milk yeah cool
so when one type of food makes you sick you are allergic to that food okay great so with this in mind
now we can listen to our dialogue for the first time at its normal speed but don't worry if you don't
get everything now because we'll come back and teach you the important language
do you have any plans for the evening we were thinking of checking out a restaurant the
neighborhood do you have any suggestions I know there's really nice Italian place the food is
fantastic and the decor is beautiful I'd recommend giving it to try actually I'm not all that
crazy about Italian food I'm in the mood for something a bit lighter in that case I know
a great little bistro and they can really tasty seafood platter the fish is outstanding it sounds
fantastic but I'm allergic to seafood so okay well let me think oh I know this great little place
it's just a hole in the wall but they do the most amazing sandwiches you can give them a try
Ella you took me there last time I visited and I got food poisoning remember
well I'm getting hungry just thinking about all of those great restaurants yeah some really good
recommendations except for food poisoning right no that's okay let's start with our language takeaway
for this lesson language takeaway our first word on language takeaway is check out check out check
out check out so we have some great examples on how we can use check out in different situations
and then you can understand the meaning example one have you been to new cafe next door yeah I checked
it out yesterday the food was great example two hey check out my new car
example three I'm going to check out the new shopping mall these weekends
so I can understand that it just means look at yeah look at or yeah or go see so let's go check out
that new bar in town yeah okay cool next word is bistro bistro bistro bistro so what's a bistro it's
kind of complicated but it's like a small restaurant that's not really cheap though not so cheap
but not so expensive and it's usually French yes so yeah small informal restaurant yeah bistro
okay so our third phrase for today is not all that crazy about not all that crazy about
I'm not all that crazy about okay again kind of a funny phrase but we've got some examples that
will help you understand the meaning example one do you want to go shopping with me tomorrow
I'm not all that crazy about shopping I don't like spending money
example two I'm not crazy about jazz music my change to song
so this is just a really polite way of saying you don't like something exactly but now the
opposite of this would be tasty tasty that's our fourth word tasty tasty so when something is
tasty it's good it's good like delicious delicious yeah you know what in English we almost
never say the food is delicious but we always say it's really tasty yes this is really tasty yes
tasty and our last phrase for language takeaway in the mood for in the mood for in the mood for
let's listen to some examples of this phrase and we'll understand the meaning a little bit better
example one we always eat hamburgers for dinner I'm in the mood for something different
example two let's watch movie how about Texas chainsaw massacre I am not in the mood for a
horror movie so if I'm in the mood for something I feel like doing or eating or watching
watching yeah it means you want to do that now yeah I'm in the mood for okay
some great language we just looked at and I think it's time for us to listen to the dialogue a second time
do you two have any plans for the evening we were thinking of checking out a restaurant in the
neighborhood do you have any suggestions I know this really nice Italian place the food is fantastic
and the decor is beautiful I'd recommend giving it a try actually I'm not all that crazy about
Italian food I'm in the mood for something a bit lighter in that case I know a great little
bistro they make a really tasty seafood platter the fish is outstanding it sounds fantastic
but I'm allergic to seafood so okay well let me think oh I know this great little place
it's just a hole in the wall but they do the most amazing sandwiches you've got to give them a try
Ella you took me there last time I visited and I got food poisoning remember
okay some really great and useful phrases there and I know you want to talk about specifically
some of these phrases yes today's lesson is all about making recommendations right right
so let's look at some useful phrases in fluency builder fluency builder
so in the dialogue we heard a great way of asking for a suggestion that's right let's listen
do you have any suggestions do you have any suggestions so that's how you would ask for a suggestion
or you can say something else like do you have any ideas yeah or you might say do you have any thoughts
okay so that's great ways asking for a suggestion yep in response to this you can say something like this
I'd recommend giving it to try I'd recommend giving it to try we also heard another phrase
that we use for giving suggestions you can give them a try you've got to give them a try
so these two phrases are great I'd recommend or you gotta give them a try yeah great ways of
suggesting yes now what's really important here is the pronunciation of these words right
yeah you'll notice that we don't say I would recommend right we use the contraction I'd
I'd I'd I'd recommend I'd recommend similarly in the phrase you have got to
we shorten that to say you gotta you gotta you gotta give them a try you gotta you know what
guys if you can shorten your phrases like this if you can push the sounds together you'll sound
a lot more natural hey and also you'll be able to understand because in movies or in shows
they will never say you have got to give them a try yeah yeah so if you know how to use this
form you'll understand what they mean exactly okay great well why don't we listen to the dialogue
a third time and you'll hear some of these contractions in the dialogue
do you have any plans for the evening we were thinking of checking out a restaurant in the
neighborhood do you have any suggestions I know there's really nice Italian place the food is
fantastic and the date call is beautiful I'd recommend giving it to try actually I'm not all that
crazy about Italian food I'm in the mood for something a bit lighter in that case I know
a great little bistro they make a really tasty seafood platter the fish is outstanding it sounds
fantastic but I'm allergic to seafood so okay well let me think oh I know this great little place
is just a hole in the wall but they do the most amazing sandwiches you can give them a try
Ella you took me there last time I visited and I got food poisoning remember
okay great dialogue and Erica I know that you have some food poisoning stories for us
I don't know about stories but I've definitely had food poisoning before um yeah one of the worst
times that I ever had food poisoning was uh when I was traveling in Morocco okay I had some really
amazing orange juice really fresh squeeze that day in the morning um and then I got on a bus
okay I think you can see where this is going yeah so I was on the bus and then I started to feel really
sick um and I was just hoping and hoping and hoping that the bus ride would be over soon
but unfortunately it wasn't oh no all I can say is that I was sick and I I can say is that I was
pretty sick and really really unhappy yeah I bet well that's very strange that you got sick from
the orange juice huh well yeah maybe it was with some dirty water or something like that I don't
know it was just it was a terrible situation yeah it's always complicated when you're traveling
to other countries it could be the water it could be the the way they prepare things so yeah yeah
food poisoning guys I hope that you don't get food poisoning and if you have any food poisoning
stories it would be great for you to share them yes at our website englishpod.com and we'll see
you there to answer all your questions and comments but now we have to go okay guys thanks for listening
we'll see you there bye bye
you